So, this is the object-oriented
programming sort of master challenge,
where we're going to build
a complete application using and
understanding hopefully, all the
principles of object-oriented programming
that we've learned in
the last two sections.
Okay, so
this is the first part of the challenge.
So, the purpose of the application is
to help a fictitious company called,
Bills Burgers to manage their
process of selling hamburgers.
So the application's gonna help Bill
to select the type of burgers and
some of the additional items, or
additions, that can be added to
the burgers as well as the actual pricing.
So, we wanna create a base hamburger,
but we also wanna add
to our other types of hamburgers that
are popular ones in Bill's store.
We'll be talking about
those in the next section.
So the basic hamburger should
have the following items.
Should have the bread roll type,
the meat, that's meant to say meat there,
and up to 4 additions.
So these are additional things
like lettuce, tomato and
carrot that the customer can
select to a particular burger.
So each of these items
that do get selected and
added, are actually charged
the additional price.
So you need to find some way to track
how many of these items got added, and
to calculate the price, both for the base
hamburger and all those additions.
So the burger itself has got a base price,
like the base hamburger, but
then all the additions that are added
are actually each have their own
additional price over and above that.
So what you'll want to do is create
a hamburger class to do with all of
the above, and the constructor
should only include the roll type,
the type of roll that's used with
the hamburger, the meat and the price.
So you'll be needing to create
methods to do these other things like
add these additional items.
Now in addition to that, there's
also some extra functionalities
Okay, so the other functionality that
we actually need in this application.
Now in addition to that, there's
also some extra functionalities
Okay, so the other functionality that
we actually need in this application.
We also need to create two
extra varieties of hamburgers.
Which are essentially classes.
And they're gonna cater for firstly.
The first one, A, is the healthy burger.
So this is a burger that is
actually sold only on a brown,
rye bread roll and plus,
because it's a healthy burger,
there's two additional items
that can be added to that.
So, in other words, the healthy burger
can have a total of six items or
additions in total for that class.
And that's four from the base class and
then two that can be added
to the healthy burger.
So, you probably wanna process
the two additional items in
this new healthy burger class and not
the base class since the two additions.
Are only appropriate for
the healthy burger.
So it wouldn't make sense for
you to allow six items in the base class,
because those types of burgers aren't
allowed to have those six items.
And the second type of burger
is the deluxe hamburger.
Now that comes with chips and
drinks as additions, but
no extra additions are allowed.
So you need to find a way
to automatically add these
two new additions at the time the deluxe
burger object is created, but
then also to prevent the other
additions being made.
Because they're sold as a package,
and that package cannot be modified.
Now all three classes should
have a method that can be called
any time to show the base price of
the hamburger plus all the additions.
And each showing the addition name and
the addition price, because it should be
tracking both of those and
also having a grand total for the burger.
Now for the two additional classes,
this may require you to be looking
at the base class for pricing and
then adding some pricing or
adding totals onto that as well.
So that's the challenge.
I hope that makes sense.
And It's a little bit bigger than the ones
that we've done before in that there's not
necessarily a lot of code,
but there's some design decisions in
here that you need to think about.
So you probably want to spend a bit of
time writing it on a piece of paper or
certainly thinking about it,
how this is going to play out.
What should be in that base hamburger
class, what fields should be in there, but
also what methods.
But likewise for the two additional types.
The healthy burger and
the deluxe hamburger.
What methods and
fields should be in those as well.
now just before you start the
challenge I just want to make it clear
that it's very important that you've
actually gone through the
object-oriented programming section of
this course and haven't skipped any
videos because if you don't understand
the concepts of object-oriented
programming you will struggle with this
challenge the other thing to keep in
mind is this that so there's lots of
different ways of solving this challenge
and in fact students who have been
through this course and been through
this challenge have actually posted
their code so
after you've actually attempted your
challenge it can be good to see what
other students have done with this
section again bottom line it's very
important that you actually understand
the object-oriented programming section
and those fundamentals to be able to
attempt this challenge so just as an
example one student use the constructor
with four or five parameters another one
you setters instead so I've purposely
when designing this challenge to not
tell you every parameter name method
name etc because that would ultimately
make it too easy for you bottom line is
this is a challenge it's meant to tax
you and to really make you think and
even partially completing this challenge
will definitely make you a better
programmer because you've gone through
the process of designing the solution
So go away, and
see what you can do to figure this out and
create your application.
And when you're ready to go,
come back here and
you can actually have a look and
come up and see what my solution was.
So pause the video now,
go away and do that.
And I'll see you when you get back.
Okay, how did you get on?
Did you figure out a solution?
So let's go through now and
create what my version of this code is.
Bearing in mind that with programming,
there's always
a number of different ways that you can
actually come up with a solution, but
this is the solution
I'm gonna come up with.
The first thing we need to do is we need
to create this basic hamburger class,
which is dealing with this base
information, and the base additions,
the base price, and so forth.
I'm going to create a new class and
call it Hamburger.
Okay, so that's our base class.
So, we go to create a number of fields.
We're need to start off with the name.
We need to create the name.
The name that's gonna be
the name of the hamburger.
The meat, the type of meat that
were adding to the hamburger.
We're going to add a price, and then
we're also going to add the roll type,
because we need to track that as well.
The type of bread that's gonna be used or
type of roll that's gonna be used.
So, let's add those fields.
So, private String name, private String
meet, private double,
we use a double for the price.
[sound] And we're also going to track
that actual type of bread, as well.
We'll call that breadRollType, like so.
And we've also got some additional
fields we need to add, but
we'll create our constructor first.
So, our constructor is going
to be comprised of all fields.
Now I think I might have mentioned in our
Main, constructor should only include
the roll type, meat and price,
I didn't actually mention name in there.
So, if you haven't done that with your
challenge you might wanna go back and
add the name as well.
So we want to also track the name.
So that's our basic constructor.
Now the other fields that we actually
want, we want to track those additions.
Because if you remember back here,
we talked about having up
to four additional items.
Things like lettuce, tomato,
and carrot, and so on.
So what we need to do is track those,
we need to record the actual name and
also record the price.
So to do that we're going to actually
just create some more fields, so
we're just gonna call them private.
Let's just keep it simple.
First one will be addition.
We'll call it addition1Name.
Then private double addition1 Amount,
or Price would be better, so that's gonna
be the additional item that can be put
on the hamburger, number 1, 2, 3, and
4, and I'll just make those unique.
Number 2, number 3, and number 4.
Like so.
The next part we need to do is we need to
have a mechanism to add those additions.
So we need to create a method for
each of the four additions, and
therefore to enable the calling process
to send the name and the price and for
us to record that.
So that's quite straight forward,
we need to create a method.
And we'll call it, public void_add.
We'll say add hamburger.
Addition one, so
that's gonna take send two parameters.
Which will be the name.
The addition name and then also the price.
How much we're charging for
that additional item.
Then what we need to do is put,
this.addition1Name = name.
This.addition2, it's all ready
addition1Price = price, like so, and
that's literally all we need to do.
We're just recording it,
we're not doing any validation.
You could perhaps actually look at
doing that, but we won't do that now.
Next we're going to copy and
paste the additional methods, and
we'll just make them unique for number 2.
Make sure we're actually
updating our number 2 methods,
our number 2 fields I should say.
3.
And then 4.
So we've now got a mechanism
now to add our 4 additions.
So that's pretty straight
forward as you can see there.
And really the only other thing
we need to do at this point,
is we need to create a method that
enables us to actually go through and
actually add up the price
of the hamburger.
So what it should do is,
it should actually record or
start with the base price, then go
through and check whether we've actually
received an additional item for
each one of these 1, 2, 3, and 4.
And if so, to add the price for
that to the total.
So what I'm going to do is create
a method called, itemize hamburger.
We'll call it public.
Now, we're going to
actually return double.
And the double is going to be
the total price of the hamburger,
including all the additional items,
if any.
So we're gonna call it, itemizeHamburger.
Now what we need to do is,
in order to do that we're gonna create
a local variable called hamburgerPrice.
We're gonna set that
initially to this.price.
So that's the basic price for
the hamburger that was passed
to us in the constructor.
So now what we need to do is we need to
go through each of the four additions and
determine whether there was an addition
that was passed, and if so,
to add that to the price.
But what we'll also do is we'll start out,
we'll just put a line of output here
just to confirm what we're doing.
So we're gonna put the name,
so, this.name.
Name of the hamburger.
Hamburger " + " on a ",
so just type of bun,
+ this.breadRollType, and
we'll just put the word roll after that.
And we'll put + "price is " + this.price,
the price of the hamburger.
So what that's showing at
the moment is the basic,
just really an outputting
the basic price for the hamburger.
Okay, so
next what we need to do is go through each
of the components as I've mentioned, and
check to see whether they've been added,
or have been passed I should say.
And if so,
to actually add that to the price.
So, the way we can do that,
we can put if (this.addition1Name)
if that's not equal to null.
If it's not equal to null, what that means
is that we have had some sent, or so
if that's the case, we're going
to increment the hamburger price
HamburgerPrice + =, and
that would be, this.addition1Price.
So adding the price of that,
the first additional item,
because we've determined there is one.
Then what we're also going to do is, we're
going to actually output that as well,
we're gonna put Added " +
this.addition1Name + " for
an extra this.addition1Price.
So we're just going to output to say
that we've added the additional item and
how much extra it was.
And the previous line we've
already tallied that up and
we've actually added that to
the overall price for the hamburger.
So we now need to do that for
the other three items.
Like so.
And then we'll just change those,
making sure that we're
selecting the right items here.
Addition 3.
Scroll down a bit so
we can see what we're doing.
And then the last one will be addition 4.
Like so.
So, I've now gone through and tested
number 1, number 2, number 3 and number 4.
So we've started on the base price,
with the base price for the hamburger and
we've actually added each
of those additional items,
putting some output onto the screen
to tell us what we actually added.
And we've added that to the overall price.
So of course the last thing we really need
to do now is just to return that price.
We can do that with returnHamburgerPrice.
So, that's it.
That's now our base hamburger class.
Let's just write some code
just to quickly check that
it's doing what it should be doing.
So we can go back to our main method.
I'm just going to make a bit of space
here to get rid of all those comments,
which we don't need anymore.
So, a basic bit of code to test.
We'll start with hamburger_hamburger
= new hamburger, hamburger.
And let's start with,
we'll just call it our Basic.
That's going to be
the name we're assigning.
The meat, let's call it Sausage.
The price will start at $3.56 and the
bread roll type, we'll just call it White.
A White roll.
So that's our base constructor and what
we can also then do, what we'll do first,
let's just output that.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to return the price.
So, double price =
hamburger.itemizedhamburger.
That will return the price, firstly,
but also it will actually
show us those outputs.
So let's run that and
actually just check that it is working.
So we'll run it.
And I'll just make a bit of space so
we can see what we're doing.
You're gonna see basic hamburger
on a white roll, price is $3.56.
So you can see basic on a white roll,
price is $3.56.
That's good.
We didn't actually output the message for
the topper mate but
we can do that shortly.
And just to confirm that it is working,
let's add a few items.
So I'll put
hamburger.addHamburgerAddition1, and
we'll say that's "tomato", and
let's just say that was $0.27, so $0.27.
And we'll add another one,
hamburger.addHamburgerAddition2
"Lettuce" $0.75 cents more, and
then hamburger.addHamburgerAddition3,
one more, let's say some "Cheese", $1.12.
So we've added those three items.
So let's go back here and
calculate that again.
This time I'll actually won't try and
recreate the variable because
we've already created it above.
Run it.
So we've now got, it's outputting it twice
but in the first time you can see it's
putting the basic hamburger on
a white roll, price is $3.56.
Add a tomato for an extra 27.
Which you can see there.
Added lettuce for 75.
Added cheese for an extra 12.
What we should probably do here is
then put, let's change this to.
Total burger price is, and
we'll get rid of the variable there,
because we can actually just use
that with it there to call the method and
it returns the result of the price anyway.
So lets try running that.
And we should be right so to just make
sure that's working, let's just change
that to a double 13 so it's actually
got the right decimal points.
Later in this course,
I'll show you how you can actually format
these numbers so they come out correctly.
So $3.56 plus .27 plus .75 plus $1.13.
$5.71 all together.
And just the other thing
that I said I would do.
Let's also change this.
We'll put with.
This.meat + "," price is that.
Just so we're actually also recording or
showing on the screen the type of
meat to make sure that's working.
You can see that's now
working on the screen there.
With sausage prices $3.56 and
added tomato, etc.
So, we've got the basic component working
here, we got our basic hamburger working.
We're gonna stop the video now,
cuz it's getting a bit long.
In the next video, we'll come back and
we'll actually look at the healthy burger
and the deluxe burger and
add those to our application.
So, I'll see you in that next video.